# MECH 309 – Weather Prediction Project: PART I

## Overview
This project develops a data-driven model to predict near-surface air temperature in Montréal using historical weather data.
It is based on linear regression and evaluates predictions at multiple forecast horizons (1, 3, 6, 12, and 24 hours).

## Project Structure:
The repository is organised in the following way:

-data/
    -raw/
     contains raw weather data if used.
    -processed/
    containts processed data used by the model, including 'train_weather.csv' (the data used to train the model) and 'val_weather.csv' (the data used to validate the model's performance)
-src/
    -final_temperature_model.py
    Loads the processed datasets, trains the regression model, evaluates forecasting predictions, draws plots
    -other files used for intermediary data procssing/model development.
-results/
    contains figures and results generated by our model.
-reports
    containts the written final report.

## Main Script Roles
-src/GetWeatherData.py
    Used to generate CSV files containing the historical hourly weather data for Montreal from Open-Meteo. Also creates other predictor variables like daily and annual sine/cosine terms and lagged terms.
-src/final_temperaturemodel.py
    Used to load the processed training and validation datasets, fits the linar regression model, predicts temperature at the selected forecast horizons, computes error metrics for the regression model and the basaeline model, and finally, generates plots of the predicted vs actual historical temperatures.

## How to Run
1) This project requires numpy, pandas, matlplotlib and requests to run.
2) Run the data preparation script first: src/GetWeatherData.py. This will save the processed data files.
3) Train and evaluate the model by running the model: src/final_temperature_model.py

## Data Source
Weather data was retrieved using the Open-Meteo API: https://open-meteo.com/

## Authors:
Kieran Wilkinson - 261162239
Matthew Halliday - 261096982


